H

 

ATHENA, the goddess of wisdom, was the favorite child of Zeus.
She had sprung fully grown on! of her father's head.

Her mother was Metls, goddess of prudence, the ﬁrst wife of Zeus.
He depended on her, for he needed her wise council, but Mother Earth
warned him that, were Melis l0 hear him a sun, this son would deihrone
him as Zeus had delhroned Cronus. his father who had dethroned his own
father, Uranus. This must not happen, thought Zeus. but he could not do
without her advice, as he decided to swallow hor, Slyly, he proposed that
they play a game ofchanging shapes, and Metis, forgetting her prudence,
playiully turned herself into all kinds or animals, big and small. Just as
she had taken on the shape ora little ﬂy, Zeus opened wide his mouth,
took a deep breath, and zip! he swallowed the ﬂy. Ever after, Metis sat
in his head and guided him from Ihcre.

Now it happened that Mciis was going in have a daughter, and she
sat inside Zeus‘s head hammering oul a helmet and weaving a splendid
robe {or the coming ehild Soon Zeus began tu stirrer rrom pounding head.
aches and cried out in agony, All [he gods came running tti help him, and
skilled Hephaestus grasped his tools and split open his falher’s skull. Out
sprang Athena, wearing the robe and the helmet. her gray eyes Hashing.
Thunder roared and the gods siood in awce

 

36

Athena's Constant companion was Nike. the spirit of victory. With
Nike at her side, Athena lcd armies, but only those that fought for just
causes. In time ofpeace she stood behind the artists of Greece and taught
them the ﬁne and useful aru. She had great pride in her own skills at the
loom and the poltcr’s wheel, hut was happy to see her pupils exoel at long
as they showed her proper respeet.

one of her pupils was Araehne, a simple country girl, who was
wonderfully skilled at the loom. People came from far and wide to admire
her weavings, Stupidly she boasted that she had learned nothing from
Athena; indeed, that she was better than the goddesl

That hurt Athena‘s pride, Disguised as an old woman, she went to
the girl and tried to talk sense into her.

“Your work is beautiful,“ she said, “but why compare yourself with
the gods? why not be contented to be the best among mortals?”

“Let the goddess Athena herself come and measure her skill against,

mine," Arachne answered haughtily. .

Angrily Athena threw oﬂ her disguise and stood before the girl in all
her glory.

“Vain girl,” she said, “you may have your wish. Sit down at your
loom and let us compete."

Athena wove the most beautiful tapestry ever seen, every thread and
knot was perfect and the colors sparkled. It pictured the Olympian gods
in all their glory and majesty.

Arachne's tapestry was also beautifully woven; Athena herselfhad to
admit that the girl‘s craftmanship was ﬂawless But what kind ura pio
ture had she woven? An irreverent scene making fun of Zeus and his wives!

In a wrath the goddes tore the tapestry to shreds and struck the girl
with the shuttle. Immediately Araehne felt her head shrink almost to noth~
ing, her nimble lingers change into long, spindly legs Athena had turned
her into a spider.

“Vainglorious girl, go on and spin your thread and weave your gmp‘ty
net forever,” said Athena to Arachne, the spider. Athena was e 3..“ padded
and she could be very stern. She knew that the 595, were great only I:
long as they were properly worshiped by mgr-uh.

Atheﬂa was very fond ofa ”nﬂin city in Greece. Ind to was her
uncle Poseidon} Both of them. tiaimed the city, and utter a long quarrel
they decidcd that the on: who oould give it the linen gilt should huve it.

Leading a proeestion of citizens, the two gods mounted the Aeropolis.
the ﬂat-topped rock that crowned the city Poseidon struck the cliff With
his trident, and a spring welled up. The people marveled, but the water
was salty as the sea that Poseidon ruled, and not very usefult Then Athen:
gave the city her gift. She planted an olive tree in a erevrce on the me ,
It was the ﬁrst olive tree the people had ever seen. Athena‘s gift was yudged
the better of the two, for it gave food, oil, and wood, and the city was
hcrs. From her beautiful temple on top of the Acropolis, Athena watched
over Athens, her city, with the wise owl, her bird, on her shoulder, and
under her leadership the Athenians grew famous for their arts and crafts,

 

