HERA. (he beauliful queen gr Olympus, m. a very jealous wife.
Even Zeus. who win afraid of homing, feared her liu onemper. Sh:
hand all his other wiwl, and when Zen: ﬁn! uked her to be Ilia wife,
she refused. 5|ny Zeua created a lhundcrimrm. changed himIell'lmo
a little cuckm. and. guarding Io be in dinum, he ﬂew inn: Hm‘: am
for proletiion. She pilicd uh: wcl little bird and hugged in close In Iwcp
iv warm. but all of: sudden Ihe found hemll'hnlding mighty Zeus in her
arm: inaud of the bird,

Thus Zeus won Hera and I" mlum burst imu bloom for Ihcir wad-
ding. Mollicr Eanh gave [he bride a little apple tree Iha! bore golden
npplc: of immnalily. Hem [remand the me and Flamed il in the garden
of lhe Hexperidcs. her mm garden far lo the wen. Sh: pul a hundred-
headed dragon under Ihe Ire: m guard lhc applu and ardend the three
Nymphs of thc Hespcrlden in watcr and car: for the tree.

2m hmd Hm dearly, but he was aha very Fond ur mcky Gram.
He often niclkcd down in earth in disguise lo marry mom! girls. The
man: wives he had. Ihc more children In: would h-vc. and all Ihe hem-r
{or Gmel All his children wuuld inherll some nf hi1 grammar and he-
mme great heroes and rulerx Bu! Hera in herjealuux mgr: turmenmd his
other wives and children. and even Zeul was powerless m slop her. She
knew haw Iricky Zeus muld he and hep! very clnsc watch over him.

One day as Hen lualutd down an earth, she upin n mull dark
lhunderclnud where nu cloud Ihould have been. Sh: rulhed down and
daned imo lhr cloud. Zeus wu there jusr as she h-rl suspected. but with
him was only a limo mow~whilc cow. He had Ken Hera cunning and. In
protect his newul bride in [mm her wrath, he had chnngcd [he girl into
a cow. Alas! The cow “an lovely a: the girl. and Hera was not drceivcd.
but she pmlnlldtd lo suspect nothing and begged Zcul lo In her have the
daimy cow. 141m could not well rcl'usc his queen such a liule vn'sh Willi-
am giving himsdl' away, and he had to xiv:- her the cow. Hera licd part
In In a tree and sent her servam Argus to keep ward: am her.

Argus lmd a hundred bright eyes placed all over hi: body. He was
so big and sum-lg that :inglehandedly h: had made an end w [he mon-
sirnus FatllidllL who had lived in a cave and had devoured all wha pas-Dd
hv H: was Hcrn'l faithful nemm and the best of watchman. for he l'lzvtr
rlmed more than half or his eyes in :locp m a limc.

 

 

Argue at down next to the eow and watched her with all his eyu
and pmr lo had to walk on four legs and enl gm. She railed her mmrnﬁll
eyu [0 Olympus, but Zeus wu so air-id of Here lhlll he did not dare to
ltclp her. At In: he could no lunger bear lo tee her diam and he allied
his son Her-net. the crath‘ett all the gods, to run down to earth and m [0
free.

Harmer disguised himselflu a Ihepherd and walked up to Argul
pleying a lune rm his shepherd’s pipe Argus was barred. having nothing
to do with all hit cyd but winch a little cuw, and ht- wsu glad to have
mutic and company. Henna all down baitle him, and after he had playui
hit it while. h.- begin to tell a lung Ind dull glory. It had no beginning
and it hid no end end ﬁfty of Axgut‘t eyes closed in tleep. Hermes chimed
tin and mt and tlowly the tiny other eye: fell shun one by one. Quickly
Hermes Iouched all the cycl with hit magic wand and cloled lhcm I'm-
ct-t-r in elem-l sleep. Argus had been bored [0 death

Hermes then untled the cow. and It: ran home to her (ether. the
river-god lnachm He did not recognize the mm a: his daughter. and In
could not Kellhim what had happened. all the could say NIL “th1“ But
when she lined up her little hoofand Icralched her nmc. “1-0." in the
m e! stand. her Luther at once understood what had happened for he knew
the hays of Zeus. lunches rose um 01' his river bed and melted n“ In take
revenge on the mighty thunder-god. He ﬂew a! Zeus in Inch a rage thnl

to save himwlf Zeus had to thmw a thunderbolt. and ever einec the bed
ofthe river lnachott in Arcadia has been dryl

Hem was furioux when the sew the! Argut was dead and the cow In
had been set fret. She item a vicious gidﬁy to sting and chase the now. To
be mrc Ihal her [nithﬁll servant Argus wou|d never be forgotten the tank
hit hundred bright eyu and pm [hem on the tail ofthe peacock, her fa-
vorile bird. The eyes could in: longer see. but they looked so“ and
that went to the peacock’s little head. and made it the vmnett of all
animala.

Pundits by the gndﬂy. 10 um all over cum Trying In mpe rivm
its tormenting sting, she jumped nemu the ILrail that separates Europe
from Ari: Minor,end. ever time. it has been called the Hmporu). the
“ w ' rd"

‘7“ 3:1 Itill the gedﬁy chased her all the way to the land of Egypt. When
[he Egypliam saw the snow-white cow. Ihey fell lo their knees and :A‘Ol“
shiped her. She beams an Egypliut goddea. and Her: new permuted
Zeus to change her hack to her human :llape. But ﬁrst he had to prune:
never to look ll la a in.

In lived long In Eu; gnddene-queen of Egypk and the m the bore in
Zeus became king after her, Her descendant: returned In Greece u greet
kings and beautiful queens. root '0'! unset-inst had am all been tit Vlln.

 

